Welcome to “Building and Running Containers.” After watching this video, you will be able
to: Build a container image using a Dockerfile. Create a running container using an image. And describe key Docker commands. This diagram shows the development process
of a running container. The steps to create and run containers are: Create a Dockerfile. Use the Dockerfile to create a container image. And use the container image to create a running
container. Use a Dockerfile to create a running container. This sample Dockerfile has the commands FROM
and CMD. FROM defines the base image. And CMD prints the words ”Hello World!” on the terminal. You’ll notice that this Docker command uses
the build command, the tag, the repository, the version, and the current directory. After you run this build command, the output
messages include: Sending build context to Docker daemon “Successfully built &lt;image id&gt;”, which
confirms image creation and “Successfully tagged my-app:v1”, which
confirms the tag. To verify the creation of the image, run the
“docker images” command. The output displays the repository (my-app), as well as the tag (v1), image ID, creation date, and the image size. Create the container using the run command
with the container image name and tag. The application prints the words “Hello,
world!!” Execute the docker ps -a command, which displays
the details of the container created. Given the appropriate input, the build command is used to create container
images with tags from a Dockerfile. The images command will list all the images,
their repositories and tags, and their sizes. The run command creates and runs a container
from an image. The push command stores images in a configured
registry and The pull command retrieves images from a configured
registry. In this video, you learned that: The build command is used with a Dockerfile
to build a container image, the run command is used with an image to create
a running container, and key Dockerfile commands include build,
images, run, pull, and push.